[Music]
youthful radiant skin thick silky hair
who doesn't want to look as if they're
straight out of a TV commercial but when
it comes to following common beauty tips
is what you see or hear really what you
get are you buying into some dangerous
myths about skin hair and nail care
before you find out be sure to click
that subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to always stay on the
bright side myth number one wearing
makeup every day is bad for your skin
it's not really makeup itself that's
harmful to your skin but some things you
might be doing wrong for example if you
tend to go to bed without removing your
makeup then you're bound to have skin
issues you see your skin needs to
breathe at night if it's covered in
makeup it's not gonna get the oxygen it
requires to renew itself besides that
most cosmetic products these days have
UV filters moisturizing acids and
protective properties that repair your
skin and shield it from environmental
aggravators go for the ones with these
good ingredients myth number two if the
bottle says hypoallergenic the product
is good for any skin the difference
between regular and hypoallergenic
cosmetics is that the latter doesn't
include the most common allergenic
ingredients such as alcohol so unless
you're 100% sure it's alcohol that's
giving you an allergic reaction using
such products aren't necessarily safer
in fact the only thing that doesn't
cause an allergy and absolutely any skin
type is water before buying any new
product carefully examine the
ingredients some of the most basic
components can be dangerous for your
particular skin type even organic
cosmetics aren't good for each and every
person myth number 3 moisturizing cream
doesn't prevent wrinkles from appearing
no moisturizers won't get rid of the
fine lines you already have but they do
prevent new ones from appearing a
moisturizer can't go deep under your
skin into the dermis in order to repair
the collagen however it will
hydrate the top layers you've probably
noticed people with oily skin typically
have fewer wrinkles than those with dry
skin so let your moisturizer become your
anti-aging oil resource and combat at
least one wrinkle causing factor the
most important thing is that the cream
you are using provides UV protection and
has vitamins and antioxidants in it myth
number four your skin gets used to the
cream you're using so it stops working
if you've heard this myth it probably
made you experiment with different face
products in hopes of getting them to
work for you
in fact the ingredients your skin once
loved will always be just as powerful if
they stopped working their magic for you
the reason must be in your skin itself
an oil-free cream that used to work for
your oily skin all the time won't cut it
anymore if your skin is now the dry type
your skin type and condition can change
depending on so many factors like the
weather stress and aging so unless you
feel the need to try new skincare
products because the old ones don't
bring desirable results feel free to use
your favorites for as long as you want
besides sometimes switching to a new
cream can be stressful for the skin also
be sure to adjust your skincare routine
for different seasons in the summer it's
enough to put on some cream to maintain
an optimum pH level but as cold weather
approaches your skin needs additional
moisturizing elements to protect it from
the drier air and harsh winds and no
matter what the season you should always
wear SPF myth number 5 you should apply
moisturizer from the bottom up many
people believe that there are special
rules for putting the cream on your face
and that rubbing it in a certain way
will enhance the effect of the product
sure there are rules in skin care you
should wash your face with lukewarm
water and the right facial cleanser for
your skin type then splash it with some
cooler water and apply your toner with a
cotton pad next would be your eye cream
and serum if you use these products the
final step is squeezing out a pea-sized
drop of moisturizer and rubbing it all
over your face but whether you do it
from bottom to top or insert
emotions the end result is the same just
try not to pull down on your skin oh and
never forget about your neck myth number
six drinking plenty of water reduces the
appearance of wrinkles this myth was
made popular by celebrities who swear
that water is their secret to amazing
red carpet looks and permanent youth in
reality there's no specific evidence to
back up the claim that water slows down
skin aging when the upper epidermis
cells die they don't absorb any more
moisture from the inside yes water is
great for you and you should definitely
choose it over sugary sodas and juices
unlike the sweet fizzy stuff water won't
give you acne or excess weight however
it doesn't reverse time and it won't
erase your wrinkles even if you drink
way more than you normally do myth
number seven facial exercises will help
you get rid of wrinkles your face is the
only part of your body that has muscles
directly attached to the skin constant
stretching and exercising them will not
help smooth out existing wrinkles in
fact working out the muscles in your
face can pull and stretch facial skin I
mean just lift your brows do you feel
your forehead folding into wrinkles
exactly doing facial exercises does have
its benefits but it does not reverse
aging myth number eight staying in the
Sun will help dry out your acne oh yes
the Sun does dry your skin out but your
skin's natural reaction to such torture
is to start pumping out even more pore
clogging oil not to mention a 2018 study
at Harvard Medical School showed that
prolonged exposure to the Sun without
protection may cause sun allergy which
in turn can lead to acne breakouts myth
number 9 a beautiful tan means healthy
skin your skin doesn't react to the Sun
by becoming darker simply because it's
getting healthier
in fact this is your skin's way of
trying to protect itself from the
damaging rays that you're letting invade
it ultraviolet radiation messes with
your DNA which is why it can cause skin
cancer
it also drastically speeds up skin aging
dr. Roxana Donohue of Stanford
University School of Medicine explains
that there's no such thing as safe
tanning any tanning means killing your
skin cells so put on sunscreen and limit
your exposure myth number 10 removing
moles is dangerous
a mold is a pigmented formation on the
skin they come in different shapes and
colors but most moles are perfectly
harmless
however certain external factors can
cause them to degenerate into melanomas
in that case any moles that look
suspiciously like skin cancer should be
removed this procedure is completely
safe when done by a medical professional
myth number 11 using ice cubes on your
skin is good for you directly exposing
your skin to really low temperatures can
actually harm it ice can disturb the
blood flow causing swelling and the
appearance of spider veins it can also
damage your sebaceous glands which can
lead to dryness and a loss of elasticity
plus there are so many facial care
products that can help your skin a lot
more than ice can myth number 12
trimming your hair will make it grow
faster if you get rid of split ends
regularly you'll definitely make your
hairstyle look better and reduce hair
breakage still hair grows at the same
rate about a quarter of an inch each
month regardless of how often you cut it
and whether you cut it at all and that's
because it's the follicles in your scalp
that determine how fast your hair grows
not the dead ends myth number 13 you
should brush your teeth after every meal
brushing your teeth immediately after
eating is not only useless but also
harmful recent studies by the American
Dental Association have confirmed this
acid which enters the oral cavity with
your food eats into tooth enamel and
contributes to its erosion if you
regularly brush your teeth within half
an hour after eating you'll destroy your
tooth enamel much faster
myth number fourteen nail polish is bad
for your nails since it doesn't let them
breathe nails are basically dead cells
if the nail plate could breathe then
nail polish simply wouldn't stick to it
due to high humidity dermatologist and
nail expert dr. Dena Stern explains that
nails do not require oxygen since they
feed through capillaries in the area
under the cuticle did you believe any of
these myths tell us in the comments
below remember to give this helpful
video a like share it with your friends
and click subscribe to stay on the
bright side of life
you